last time I talked to you you you went
by Raj mm-hm and just a little bit
curious about what prompted the change
well I I had a there's just like a
tremendous amount of people that I mean
I don't know exactly how many people but
there are a lot of people that felt like
that it was like they're very
problematic and offensive um and I know
that there was other people that like
didn't and I I mean I spoke with you and
I you said that you know like oh it's
just the internet but I didn't want to
leave any real like reason for those
people within my community to feel like
they were excluded because of that
offense and to be completely honest like
he didn't make sense anyway like I was
doing I was me I was Who I am you know
didn't really make any sense so I wanted
to move on yeah cool man I just want to
reiterate that like like I said to you I
wasn't defendant as an Gujarati Indian
so your name is Ravi or your name sir
you know I grew up around uh in a
predominantly Indian community like with
a lot of Indian friends but I felt like
that didn't justify my use of the name
and such so like I just I wanted to you
know apologize to those who that that
that were personally affected or
impacted and just sort of move on from
it oh and by the way start about the
bandaid on my forehead I uh it's not as
it but it's a I got a biopsy from a wart
that I had so no judgment
yeah and just just about that for a
second so I won't actually like say I
appreciate like even though I wasn't
personally offended I really appreciate
the change and the reason is because
first of all like I know I did and said
a lot of things I don't know when you
came up with the name but like you know
when I was 19 I did a lot of stupid and
offensive stuff and I think it's like
important to you know change and grow
and I can totally get you know where
you're coming from in terms of sort of
saying like even though it doesn't
bother some people and like you know is
it offensive is it not offensive just
like you know just change and then the
other thing is that I think that a lot
of times people
looked figures like streamers and even
though the streamer may not be doing
something that's like completely out of
line it gives their audience license to
do things that are more out of line yeah
I mean in we yeah it's it's it's sort of
one of those things I mean you know as
you say I mean I've gone through
tremendous progression in my own life my
personal life my professional life you
know I came out this past year as gay or
mostly gay as I say because sexuality is
complex and you know it's I've realized
that there's just a journey and you know
when I first started experimenting with
my sexuality at that moment I was like
nobody's ever gonna know this is a phase
you know that sort of thing so you know
I've just been on this sort of journey
over the last bit of time and it's I'm
happy you know but it it sucks you know
you make mistakes and it sucks but yeah
I hate that I I'll be honest you know I
hate that I I like I don't want to say I
hate myself but like I'm just like god
what a [ __ ] loser you were you know
like what no I'm I'm I'm with you man I
mean I think that's actually like what I
really respect about what you're doing
is because like we all make mistakes and
like somewhere along the way it became
okay to not make mistakes you know yeah
and and not to say that it is like it
doesn't justify the behavior but I think
the most important thing to remember is
that like humans human beings aren't
born perfect and ultimately what I look
for and and what Garner's my respect is
like someone's ability to look into
their past and say hey like I did this
then and I didn't know any better and
now I do so I'm gonna change and I think
often times you know people will just
like judge people for being idiots which
is sort of fair because you were an
idiot and like so I get that but at the
end of the day you know I think that we
should also respect people who are
willing to like change the way that they
think and take a step forward because
and I've been thinking about this a lot
like I don't know how what kind of role
models we have on the Internet and and I
think a lot of what we see is because
like we don't have people don't know
like what good looks like and I just
think well it sure I can bandaid on the
forehead I can tell you that what are we
talking about today
we're talking about we're talking about
anxiety culture dog I almost called you
mr. Kay that's cool since you're a
doctor no I mean I'm not a foe okay yes
I know mr. mr. dr. kay people call me
dr. show which is not not accurate I'm
not a doctor I don't want and show isn't
my last name I don't know where that
came from but I changed my channel name
to Austin show and people call me mr.
and dr. show so that's a doctor I am not
offended by you being called doctor I
think it's just except I can change them
can we page one into dr. show is that
what I can do
yeah I mean the only thing is I would
consult with an attorney to make sure
that your audience understands that
you're not a real doctor but as a
personal doctor an Indian person I have
not been personally offended by either
of those okay I mean there are all kinds
of people calling them doctors all kinds
of [ __ ] yeah that's okay yeah
so it's ironic doctor get yeah then I'm
anxious to talk about anxiety it's
actually kind of fitting but yeah most
great you be open and open and
transparent with it and I think that
maybe I'm sure there's a lot of people
that can relate with anxiety in the chat
but as we go through the course of our
conversation they'll probably understand
why sure yeah so you want to just start
there like why are you anxious to talk
about anxiety um I think I think anxiety
and and sort of like you know mental
health in general is a very personal
intimate thing I guess not I feel like
it's something that definitely needs to
be talked about because it's a it's a
problem that that so many people deal
with and I think the solution is talking
about it and and sort of being open
about open about your emotions and
feelings but I just think that like the
anxiety from talking about it xiety is
like sort of like the idea of like being
feeling vulnerable and talking about
things that are just you know
things that are personal to you that you
don't really talk about because you sort
of put on like a rough exterior is a
personality that like you you are
expected to sort of be more than or like
above you know what I mean
what are you expected to be well I mean
I don't know if the expectation is like
exactly set forth like specifically but
I feel like I'm expected to sort of be
perfect in some regard and Marcus sort
of held to a higher standard which I
understand why that would be the case
you know given that I think we are held
to a higher standard and rightfully so
we have a lot of influence and so we
should be held to a higher standard but
but yeah but like but still despite that
I still am a human being and I have
these emotions and everything so it's
very complicated sorry I don't know if I
answered your question
yeah I mean I think you answered it
really well I think you know it's kind
of interesting it's like I don't know
when we started holding different humans
to different standards like if that's
actually good like so yeah like if
you're a streamer you shouldn't be an
[ __ ] but if you're in twitch at like
it's okay to be a racist [ __ ] you
know it's kind of interesting it's like
everyone says like it's the standard
thing that everyone says like oh like I
you know I should be he'll do it like
I'm held too high like why why can't we
hold like why can't we expect everyone
to be decent human beings yeah it's a
it's a good point
I mean I've come to the conclusion that
we including myself as everybody's a
little bit of a hypocrite yeah you know
that's the board like if you if you
evaluate everybody's life holistically
is that the right word dr. K I'm in I'm
in an intellectual environment you're a
doctor because the right word let me
look tell me man
holistically I don't know what you're
trying to say so I don't know if it's
the right word I was just like trying to
say over overall like look sure whole
picture sounds like everybody's life
like on the whole picture I I think you
would find that everybody is a hypocrite
everybody yeah hundred Britain of the
people are hypocritical sure to some
degree I mean if you really look at it
that sort of thing but yeah yeah cool I
mean I don't know where I was gonna I
it's just interesting cuz I hear this
line a lot that everyone like you know I
should be held to a higher standard than
other people and I feel that way too
like I feel like I have to be held to a
higher standard but then like there are
other parts of me that like why do other
people get a pass why can't we hold
everyone to the same standard isn't that
really what equality is like and and I
also think that sometimes what I see is
that actually people hold streamers to
unfair standards
you know cuz I I feel like yeah I mean
what do you mean in particular I mean
just just like you know so if we just
listen to some of what you started
saying you were kind of saying like I
feel like I have to maintain an exterior
right you feel like you have to maintain
something you feel like maybe other
people are allowed to feel
whereas on some level you may not be or
you may not feel as allow to feel right
and unclear whether you're actually
allowed or not allowed but like let me
give me an example of like in the the
exterior portion and how that's
communicated to the audience because I
think maybe that people might not
understand exactly where I'm coming from
let's say I'm like going through like a
like a serious like mental health
breakdown or something like you know and
like I need to like I alway take out a
show I like cancel the show I sometimes
don't feel well in sometimes I'll be
like hey I'm going through a rough patch
and I'll explain that but other times I
feel like I can't really say like hey
the reason I acted this way B was
because I was anxious because people
like oh yeah nice excuse or something
like that or the reason I was like you
know doing this or whatever is because I
was anxious people you know I feel like
that it's just it's just an excuse or
whatever so you feel judged yeah I mean
certainly I mean yeah of course yeah
some degree for being human yeah but
look I mean III also want to say that
I'm extremely extraordinarily blessed to
be in the position that I'm in and like
I feel like you know the the the the
pros of this oh hold on hold on a second
Austin yeah hold on okay this is weird
so I'm okay why not so I said do you
feel judged for being human and what was
your response to go to basically say
that I'm not human yep right like
basically to basically be like yeah
you're just human and then like think of
it as sort of like an excuse that you
said like I thought you saying that was
giving me an excuse it's weird right so
so I said hey man you're allowed to be
human and you said but I'm blessed
and there's a saddle there's a subtle
there's a subtle there's of something
very insidious there which I like really
want to point out like I could be wrong
about this by the way yeah it's weird
right like I'm saying Austin you're
allowed to be human and you're basically
saying in your response I didn't even
let you finish I'm sure you would have
said something but I just want you to
notice what your mind did is you talked
about the privilege and why does someone
like talking about the privilege that
you've been given in life sort of in
that moment invalidates like your
capacity to be upset or hurt or whatever
I see this a lot with like privileged
people where they almost like invalidate
like that's that's the standard that you
hold yourself to you see that it's like
you're not letting yourself be like a
human and and you know somebody else is
a twitch streamer and they say yeah like
you know life is hard you're gonna be
like but you're blessed that's that's
not what you say to them you're like
yeah man like you deserve to be have a
rough life too like even if you're a
trick streamer like it's cool but it
comes with a lot of pressure but when
you think about yourself you're like oh
but I'm blessed it's almost like it's
like a party line that you have to say
to like not feel like an [ __ ]
basically it's like I feel because and I
feel like that has to something to do
with the culture sort of like of our of
our industry in general just culture in
general I think that people that and I
even feel guilty even talking about this
because like I feel like people are
gonna be reacting the same way but
celebrity types and I'm not a celebrity
but you know I get people with influence
and large audiences I feel like the
stigma is like oh you make a lot of
money you're fine like you're good let's
talk about that guilt what makes you
feel guilty like about like being
privileged yeah
um I don't know IIIi don't necessarily
feel guilty about like being privileged
person yeah I just feel like I can't
communicate my feelings without being
judged about them if that makes sense
that makes so like I feel like I have
tremendous privilege but I don't want
people to conflate is that the right
word dr k i'm using big words here
confession basically sir to conflate
what does conflate mean it means mix up
mix up okay good I'm happy I'm using
these words correctly I don't want
people to conflate me talking about my
emotions and feelings as me not being
appreciative of the privileged position
that I'm in and I feel like often if I
were to talk about some of the things
that I feel like my anxious thoughts or
feelings and it might not be rational I
feel like maybe people would be like wow
this guy's complaining when he drives a
Lambo and I don't drive a Lambo dr. K
that's just a meme but um like oh this
guy's got a this guy's got a great life
you know like why is he complaining
about anything at all you know so I try
to keep any complaining about anything
to a minimum base yeah so let me ask you
see what's happening to me but ya know
to to I just close twitch at a little
while ago cuz I can't I like reading it
actually I don't know why I just like
maybe I mean I like it too it's just it
maybe I'm like a masochist I really
reading sorry Chet Austin two thoughts
okay okay first is just think about you
know what it like you're saying like
there's a part of you that says and I'm
not saying this part is wrong I'm just
saying like let's look at it okay we
could talk about your anxiety at some
point if you want to yeah this is all
connected right it's okay I think so so
if you know there's a part of you that
basically says like you're not allowed
to complain right like you're and like
I've seen that before and bizarrely like
I'm not trying to draw a connection here
it's just it's just weird because like
really I hear this kind
dialogue in abusive relationships people
invalidate their own viewpoint and they
say I'm not allowed to suffer because
dot-dot-dot are you saying dr. K I'm in
an abusive relationship with my audience
there's conflation my friend you
understand no it's a reasonable
conclusion because I said that these
teeth I'm just saying like it's not
important out an observation I actually
don't know what it means
yeah but I mean like I see this sort of
idea that like oh I'm not allowed to
complain right and like it's fair in a
sense right that like you should be
grateful for your privilege and you
should be grateful that you have things
that other people don't have and I I do
believe that like I kind of agree with
this guy Gautam Buddha Buddha then you
know suffering is like a part of life
and that there's no human that is not
going to experience suffering or is
entitled to experience suffering do I
think that all people experience the
same amount of suffering no but I don't
think that like gatekeeping suffering is
like a way forward because that leads to
all this weird toxic [ __ ] like you know
one-upmanship and like invalidation of
other feelings and like you know just I
just don't think that that's all thing
the second thing is are you alright like
you can keep on asking me about like
using language properly or like are you
concerned about being perceived as like
not intelligent no I don't care it's
actually joking yeah sort of a meme or
joke okay okay I'm just I actually don't
really mind being like perceived as an
idiot okay okay I I think sometimes
maybe like it would get to me but I mean
oh like I don't really care too much
like it doesn't really bother me that
much okay about being like perceived as
it is an absolute [ __ ] because I think
generally twitchchat across the board
thinks we're all stupid like and it's
sort of like a fun loving way sure um
yeah I don't think I'm stupid I don't
have like a okay good like like a
complex where I feel like I'm stupid you
know can I ask you just one more
question about that go ahead yeah would
it be okay if you did have a cop
it's about feeling stupid yes I think
hold on wait let me think about that
question um yeah I suppose so I guess
what I don't know if they're it's sort
of like I guess that's the way you feel
right um but it's not like something
that I like maybe like there's isolated
moments like because I think we all have
these right we all have like these
moments where like is is broadcasters
like maybe we're being serious about
something and they'd we don't want to be
joking in that moment and then they then
maybe we take it more personally but it
to me it's not like I get off stream I'm
like oh god they think I'm so dumb I'm
not actually um you know I don't have
that problem it doesn't bother me at all
okay okay cool thanks for answering that
I appreciate it now I do have a problem
with with with the saying like a lot but
I'm dealing with it what do you mean by
that
yeah so let's talk about anxiety let's
talk about it so what it what do you
mean by anxiety um that's a good
question really making me think here
what do I mean by anxiety the way I
define anxiety is just sort of like the
the physiological response to events out
of my personal control so let's say I'm
going on an airplane
my mind will immediately go to the
worst-case scenario that could possibly
happen I get on the plane I'm in a
seconds to disaster movie next thing you
know we're going down it's over on a you
know because in the call and and and for
some reason my mind it's hard for me to
explain this but my mind will go to the
worst-case scenario of anything like
let's say I'm going I went on a trip I
went out of town like last week and I
drove I drove to this this town in in in
a different state and on that drive you
go through a mountain pass and through
that mountain pass you are that you are
going through periods of places where
you are going to like get there's like
oncoming traffic or whatever that you
could you could cross over the there's
no median you could cross over and
coming to a head-on collision and so
every time I Drive up there the thought
in my head is oh my gosh that could
happen to me I need to be so careful and
then I get anxious about it like oh my
gosh what what if I get in this head-on
collision like I'm gonna draw I'm gonna
move and so as I Drive up there I like
I'm like during this part of the drive
I'm like holding the wheel very tightly
hugging the right side just in case and
like especially when cars like come the
other way and like just making sure that
and part of that's being just safe is
the driver and be sort of wheelchair but
but part of that's like irrational like
of course yes that's a possibility to
happen but is that really rational and
and why would I get worked up about it I
have no idea in even no matter how often
I
go through this it just for some reason
and like try to justify it and know that
it's like crazy I still have these crazy
thoughts of the worst case scenario
worst possible thing that can happen so
so yeah thank you so much for sharing
that I think it's a beautiful picture of
anxiety can I collect my thoughts for a
second yes please go ahead
you
how old are you Austin 26
okay
gonna need another like maybe like a
minute I'm just coming up with a plan to
kind of think through and approach this
with you
you
okay how long have you been having these
thoughts
since I can remember
[Music]
since I was younger how young gosh it's
gotten worse with age I'd say okay
but I'd say like
probably I can't really remember to be
honest just very early I sort of had
like the inclination but it yeah okay so
do you remember what thinly like paint
us a picture of what used to worry about
like as a kid
is a kid
I would worry about they wouldn't be the
same so I mean sort of similar things
like for example you know around like
the the I don't know I'm just trying to
think of something random from my
childhood that I like what one time I if
it's a lot of this has to do with planes
which is ironic because I used to want
to be a commercial airline pilot and I
still have a passion for aviation but
this one time like I was like getting on
a plane and I had like a complete mental
like breakdown and like anxiety attack I
was with my mom we were on like a soccer
trip and I saw like a box board the
plane right just like unlike like a box
it was like all taped up and weird and
just stuff and immediately my mind went
too you know because this was like 2000s
you know and you know and I was like
immediately my mind went to oh [ __ ] like
we're gonna go like it's it's gonna like
this is it like that's that's a
suspicious package it's gonna it's gonna
you know something's gonna happen
that there's something in there that's
gonna take the plane down or something
and I like panicked and just like I
didn't want to board the plane at all of
course we ended up boarding and is fine
right but that was where my brain went
okay so there's something weird there so
like you said your brain is like it's a
suspicious package and the plane is
gonna go down yeah wondering that not
more like it's weird that's what's in
the package that's what I was thinking
it was probably the likely scenario is
in which it was it was just some package
filled with some stuff nano but but why
can't she use the word bomb I I don't
know that because I don't know is that
what she thought was in the package yeah
I thought it was some sort of explosive
yeah so it's just weird because like
even now as you tell the story like you
know I would imagine that if I had
anxiety mm-hmm and like because we all
know you're talking about a bomb yeah
but you're not using the word bomb it's
just strange
IIIi don't know
yeah yeah I I don't know exactly what to
make of that observation but like it's
almost
there's like a Voldemort aspect to it
where if you like you know speaking its
name is like somehow I don't know it
just feels weird like it feels like kind
of like avoidant to use the like you're
not trying to use the like you're trying
to say it without using the word bomb
which I don't know what the significance
of that is but it certainly seems to be
like a bear I mean yeah I don't know
maybe I don't know exactly why do you
see what I'm saying though yeah I get it
yeah so so I mean it's just like we
don't have to understand everything
let's just make observations then we'll
short out you know whether there's some
kind of like avoidance yeah or does it
make you feel silly to use that word
yeah well it sort of makes me feel silly
that I even thought that if that makes
sense yes it just silly that I even
thought that would be the case so you're
dodging yeah you're judging yourself for
your irrational words and so like maybe
speaking irrational words like makes
your thoughts sort of more real and like
the silliness increases right because it
is so silly because dr. K this was a
flight that if I can remember in
particular was like a 25-minute flight
like from it was like literally like a
flight it like rationally it doesn't
make sense you know it just first of all
it never made sense but like just the
idea that this random flight would be
the target of something like it just
doesn't there's no rationale period from
any in anything but like it was just so
stupid to even think of that in that
particular situation okay so you
sometimes I'm not so sure I agree with
that but we'll oh you don't think it's
rational we'll get there mate okay okay
so let me ask you this like so you
basically think about your it sounds
like your anxiety is mostly thinking
about catastrophic very low likelihood
scenarios actually right right which I
think yeah but I think I don't know does
everybody think like that or in in the
sense that like they think of the
worst-case scenario I think the thing
for me is I will obsess over it for sure
like I will obsess over to lose sleep
over it I won't eat you know I can't
sleep as soon it like for example when I
go on long flights
I won't I cannot
at all just because for the reason that
I'm afraid that if I go to sleep I'm
gonna wake up to everybody around me
screaming and if I let my personal guard
down it's just what might hate thought
my brain goes if I let my personal guard
down then something's gonna happen if I
relax something's gonna happen if I stop
I'm not oh no what happened when you did
let your personal guard down
nothing nothing when I relax nothing I
mean nothing's happened I don't think is
there anything and so now we got to be
careful because I suspect that so we're
running up against an enemy here which
is your judgment that's gonna make it
hard for you to speak right so has
something happened to you that feels
super irrational where you let your
guard down and something catastrophic
happen to you as a result
I can't think of like anything in
particular
okay where that was a case can you tell
me you'll go ahead sorry
go ahead no you go ahead go ahead can
you just tell me a little bit about your
upbringing yeah sure
what about it what do you want to know
just where did you grow up what was that
like um I grew up in I don't I don't
geographical stuff is like irrelevant
but on the west coast or dinner state of
Oregon I had a pretty good
I had a stable upbringing there was no
real issues can you tell me about your
parents
yeah married like they were I love my I
love my mom and dad they they've been
like you know extremely you know support
of me throughout and provided me with
the tools I feel like that have created
the person that I am today so and who's
the person that you are today
well I mean I feel like you know
obviously as anybody I've made mistakes
and done things but I feel like I feel
like I'm a good person you know I feel
like I try to do the right thing I feel
like I've made mistakes but you know I
feel like yeah I feel like that that's
who I am
are they proud of you Austin yeah yeah
they are they tell me that they are so
do you feel like they're proud of you I
know they are yeah I do
how does that feel it feels good it
feels really good it feels good to know
that you know and I have a hard time
sort of communicating that sort of thing
to them or you know I like about hard
time communicating emotions sometimes or
whatever but sure you know I am yeah
very sorry I'm getting yeah I get it
yeah anyway
what about telling for no no nothing
just getting sort of like crying I guess
I don't know what's wrong with that
nothing nothing I think I think we
should be do you feel like something is
wrong with it I think this is just like
this whole issue of like being judged
I guess it's we goes back to the root of
the conversation sure being judged so
this is like not okay you can't feel
this this is not what this is you know I
guess it goes back to that yeah it does
what does that feel like it doesn't feel
good cuz I want it I want to share
because I feel like there's people that
relate but I just feel like because of
who we like I like like the the the
influence that I have I sort of have to
put on a happy face and just you know
what I mean yeah so here's what I'm
hearing from you awesome you're not
allowed to
yeah it's not like I feel like I'm not a
like I feel like I'm not allowed to
express myself in this particular way
and again there I go my mind just went
to like a justification like to try to
clear up like my mind at that moment
when you said that my mind went to I
don't feel this way all the time and I
actually don't really feel like I'd even
need to talk about it
like it's just this is just like we're
talking about things that happen and
it's not even a big deal and I you know
that's where my mind went
yeah that's hurt what even in the
context of a place where we're talking
about this sort of thing yeah so it's
also weird because like you almost said
that you're not allowed to be happy I
mean sorry you're not allowed to because
we've been talking about you don't have
the right to be sad or suffer and yet
that part of you that self judgmental
and doesn't allow you to actually pops
up when you're expressing gratitude
appreciation and good feelings but you
still feel like you're not allowed to
like you see that's weird
even the rational justification for why
you're not allowed to feel props off
when it doesn't even apply which is like
are you not allowed to say that like you
say I'm privileged but what you just
showed us is your privilege in its
purest and you know highest form which
is that like I had a stable household
with parents who loved me and they're
proud of me
which is like something that not much of
our not many people in our audience have
yeah and yet you know you still feel
like like when you you can say the words
I'm privileged but you can't show it to
people right it's weird yeah I want to I
want to highlight something because I
don't know if this is the case it is
I was about my upbringing because
and I don't know if this is the root
cause of anything because I've done some
self-reflection like on things like that
to try to clear psychoanalyze myself you
know and think and I'm trying to like
wonder if growing up my mom is a
tremendous mother like she was
tremendous and and in you know was
awesome
throughout one thing she did do is she
scared the ever littie ever living [ __ ]
out of me about things drugs you know
going making sure that you're you know
you're not crossing the street and in a
certain place or like making sure you're
being safe about that where you know
very much stressing you know wear a
helmet and those are like common things
right but like almost to like a like
very much like if you don't you like
something negative will happen to you
sort of thing like like something
negative will happen and I don't know
what the association with is but I do do
like like for example I hope people are
gonna laugh but I I don't do drug I do I
smoke marijuana right but that's the
only that's the you know it's the only
thing that I do that's like a drug and
even that it took me till I was about
eight nineteen years old to even try
that because I was terrified of even
that but I don't drink and when I say
don't drink it's like I don't like I
have maybe a drink every once in a while
but it's very rare um I've been drunk
I've not like I have anything against
drinking but those are things that I
feel like I growing up I was told you
know basically not the drinking part as
much but more like the drugs part not to
do and so I'm absolutely terrified
that's probably a good thing but I don't
know
so Austin let me ask you something so
you offered this you said I
psychoanalyze myself my mom used to your
words were scare the other living [ __ ]
out of you yeah how do you think thats
related to your anxiety well I think
that like my mom would describe things
that the way that I think of it and it's
weird like when I'm conscious of this
but I still have this the reaction you
know but the way that my mom would
describe things like let's say that
there was a you know like let's say the
the helmet thing right
they I don't know she would go to
describe just like the traumatic brain
injury that I that could be sustained
off of that or the drug related thing
like you it just takes one time and
here's a situation where this person
died you know instantly and they were
just they were just like you and they
just died you know and I feel like all
these things as a mother I don't blame
her for telling me in these particular
situations because obviously it
prevented me from doing drugs for enemy
from wearing a helmet but like I wonder
if there is certain situations where it
was the the maybe it like sort of went
my mind sort of just goes to everything
that I do to the worst-case scenario and
I don't know if that's true or not I'm
just sort of wondering if that had
anything to do with it cuz I don't know
where this comes from and what do you
think I don't know I just lot summer had
come from I have no idea okay I don't
know where they come from
yes I'm not trying to blame her for see
there my mind went again I'm not trying
to blame her it's not her fault you know
that's I get try to so be careful would
you be okay blaming her if it was her
fault because I love my mom I don't
think that it would be her intention to
do something like that you know to like
cause me nice dogs used Boston blame has
such like a negative connotation it
doesn't like blame like she did
something horribly wrong like she's a
terrible person for that or something
like that but that to me that's not the
case like I don't want people to think
that if I say my mother it's my mother's
fault as for that there's conflation
right so so like like let me put it this
way so I'm with you that the word blame
carries a bad connotation is it possible
for her to be responsible without you
blaming her yeah I think so
up yeah certainly if we just talk about
it like straight up here if something
that she did I guess it could be
responsible whether what she did was
so yeah there I go again dr. K trying to
go for it say it say that what but like
if what she was doing was wrong was it
wrong or was it just how I became like
is is is doing those things or saying
those things is that inherently wrong or
is it just like something that just was
a sort of like an unfortunate that my
brain just happened to work this way and
maybe she was saying it to the wrong kid
basically you know so give me a second
and then I will have I believe I may
have answers for you okay okay sure and
that too could be a mistake because like
well let me say I have hypotheses yep
sure yep okay
oh wow
you
I mean so awesome let me ask you
something sure do you think that you're
anxious because your mom scared the ever
living [ __ ] out of you on a relatively
constant basis
you
my true answer is I don't know I don't
know if that was the case I've just I'd
sort of came across my mind I feel like
it's a possibility I feel like what what
does it feel what does it feel like the
answer is I'm not asking for the right
answer I'm asking for the visceral
answer and if the answer is I don't know
that's fine it were truly is doctor I
don't know that's what uh in my mind I
feel like it's a potential that
contributed but I don't believe that it
would be 100% okay the reason but maybe
it will kind of tendril i I think I I'm
with you a hundred percent and I would
agree with that 100% I don't think it's
everything I think it's a potential
contributor so let's just talk for a
second about where thoughts come from so
I know it's kind of like a basic
question but generally speaking thoughts
come from experiences right like I don't
start thinking about unicorns until like
I see unicorns like I don't start you
know you don't you can't fall in love
with a girl or guy that you've never
seen or met right like it's kind of
simple but like you know you can't want
to eat a hamburger until you like see it
or smell it or like see pictures of it
or see your friends eating it like the
thoughts in our mind are generated from
generally speaking our experiences the
other thing is like the things that our
mind learns how to do it learns from
like some pretty common sources and at
the top of the list or parents right so
like if I'm you know if I say please and
thank you then it's gonna be like
something that my mind automatically
generates based on the way that I was
raised if I'm a racist [ __ ] that also
is gonna probably be related to the way
that I was raised right like if you look
at like I grew up in East Texas where
you know there were a lot of racist
people and I was kind of racist - I'm
still sorta racist like it's so in in me
I can feel it I try to like but like I
was raised in a particular way you know
like think about
people in a particular way and oddly
enough like some of my racism is towards
like white people because I grew up with
people that I used to call rednecks
right and so I was like these guys are
on culture like that's actually still
racist you get that like you know I'm
judging the class of people based on the
color of their skin or where they come
from and I make assumptions about them
and and so the first thing to understand
is like in my experience anxiety comes
from two places so the first thing is
it's not irrational like we think it's
irrational because when we judge the
thought we're like that's not going to
happen but what is completely rational
is that our mind is going to generate
our mind doesn't generate irrational
thoughts it generates thoughts as best
as it knows how and even off in the
objective manner of truth those thoughts
are irrational like you can say that you
know like let's just talk about sexual
assault for a moment so like when
someone is sexually assaulted they feel
like a bad person and I'll give you just
a very visceral but like I think this is
the truest example this when a child is
sexually assaulted so back when kids are
growing up they don't have something
called theory of mind which means that
they don't understand that other human
beings exist literally their brain has
not developed the capacity to understand
that like other human beings exist
they're like they're super narcissistic
like a kid when it's hungry doesn't
understand that like a parent is busy or
like has a phone call they just know
that I'm hungry and like there's no food
and they get upset they're like the only
actor and then over time they developed
something called theory of mind and
their theory of mind gets like really
really good when they hit teenage years
and that's why people become so socially
anxious as teenaged because they're like
oh [ __ ]
other people exist and they have
opinions about me and what I do affects
the way that they think about me does
that make sense like like a 7 year old
just isn't really I'm concerned with
like what people think generally ok yeah
oh so so imagine if you're the only
person in the world and you get sexually
assaulted whose fault is it
if you're the only person in the world
and you get sexually assaulted by
yourself it's your fault
absolutely you're the only person in the
world yeah so like when you have a four
year old that gets sexually assaulted
they feel like it's their fault
they feel like they're bad people right
in it's bizarre because it's sort of
like when I'm learning and that's
evolutionary it's like when I'm learning
to walk and I fall down and I'm two
years old whose fault is it it that's so
interesting I've never even thought of
it that way ever
yeah it's shock in it because because a
lot of people don't understand I'm like
how could that be your fault sort of
yeah but that's what they say like if
you talk to them like everyone knows
that victims of sexual assault blame
themselves and what we all tell them is
it's not your fault but they feel like
it's their fault right so like where the
[ __ ] does that come from and then we say
like and then they feel even stupider
because there's a lot of people out
there telling them it's not your fault
but they're like but it feels like it's
my fault it's invalidating their
perspective and so it sort of it sort of
makes rational sense right that it's not
your fault that like you were assaulted
certainly if you're not for but at the
same time that's the way that they feel
and it like the the thoughts that are
generated by the mind may seem
objectively irrational but the mind has
a damn good reason for generating a
particular thought like if our thought
if our mind generated unuseful or
unadapted thoughts we wouldn't be alive
the first thing to understand is that
your mind adapts to circumstances like
if you stub your toe your brain is like
let's take care of that [ __ ] how can a
brain that can teach you how to walk
teach you how to talk teach you how to
like deal with animals deal with people
understand broad societal movements and
why you should change your name can
reflect on like what you've done in the
past this is the instrument that you're
dealing with and you're just saying like
in this one random corner of your mind
it's just broken like that's not how it
works
anxiety comes from somewhere and this is
the
and why people can't get over their
anxiety because you assume that there's
a part of your car that's busted when
actually it's working exactly I think
it's supposed to so any attempts to fix
it or not gonna work because you don't
understand actually what's going on so
okay and sorry if I go back to specific
examples go for I want to know as time
goes on I'll be like because it's kind
of like embarrassing some of this stuff
that I do to like try to fix which went
immediately when I feel anxious what I
want to do is try to get rid of those
feelings of anxiety you're doing what
I'm doing I'm fortunate enough where
again here I go but I'll just say I'll
just talk because I'm sure it's okay for
my anxiety doesn't normally stop me from
doing anything okay sort of makes the
experience very unpleasant like okay it
really wasn't so like for I'll go back
to the plane one because I think it's
like an easy example the point two
things that I do specifically so this is
my process before I go on a flight and
for the record I used to be a commercial
airline pilot which I'm sure a lot of
people are like really they don't
understand how you can have a fear of
flying whoops Wow
like yeah be a pilot sure maybe I don't
really know the answer to that but when
I go on a plane you know I'm scared of
all the things that I alluded to before
but so what I try to do in my head is to
work to try to make myself feel better
so what does that mean and so what I'll
do is I'll look up the flight I'll look
up the flight plan I'll look up the
weather forecast I'll monitor the
plane's altitude and airspeed while the
plane is flying like I'll sit there and
you know like on the airline's on the on
the screen you'll you'll see like
airspeed and and like altitude and
whatnot and because of my knowledge of
aviation I'll be like I'll feel better
watching the the the airspeed the
weather and everything just feeling to
make sure it's normal because when
you're sitting in a plane in the back of
it often you can't really tell what in
what isn't normal right so like you know
like when we're going in for when we're
taking off Oh monitor the airspeed when
we're taking off and I'll look at my
phone alright I look at my phone I'll
look at the airspeed I'm like well we're
in a 737-900 you know we need to be at
you know
at this time you know we need to be at
this particular speed or you know or or
like I'm expecting that we're gonna turn
this I'm gonna ask you a question does
that feel like you're feeding or
satisfying something it feels in the
moment it feels like I'm like okay
everything's actually going normal
because looking at like I said looking
out the window it's hard to really judge
it's satisfying right so your mind is
hungry for something yes and then you
provide it with something yeah and then
it's satisfied right so what happens to
something that is hungry and then you
give it food it's sad as it's full yep
and what happens to it over time you
need to eat again absolutely but but
I've never I've never thought of these
behaviors as being like exceptionally
like healthy like cuz cuz like for me I
feel like because they're going on my
yeah exactly like going on like my phone
and connect and buying Wi-Fi too so look
at all these things is just no reception
yeah so let's I don't want you okay so
we're gonna talk man there's so much
talk about this is fantastic man so I
think I really want to explain a lot of
stuff to you and I hope that your
anxiety can get better
also you should talk a little bit about
you know whether you should actually get
into treatment because it sounds like
you may have an anxiety disorder yeah
so I would recommend that you actually
get evaluated by a real psychiatrist for
that yeah absolutely but let's just talk
about the nature of mind for a second
and talk about anxiety in general okay
so the first thing is that like I want
you to just think about a scenario so
let's say I have low self-confidence
and then like I'm feeling bad about
myself so what I do is I like ID I'm a
friend of mine and I'm like hey like do
you think I'm a piece of [ __ ] and then
they say no man you're awesome and then
like what happens to my feeling of low
self confidence I'm hoping that it would
go up at that point but then but then
you would probably I kind of maybe
forgive me if I'm going ahead of you but
are you instantly like later
the self-confident would that hit that
was him eating yep right and filling him
up but and then afterwards he has to eat
again absolutely right so like like but
is that your observation in the world
that reassurance to people who lack
confidence doesn't really fix the
problem
it just is sort of like a band-aid
that's the hypothesis do you agree with
that uh now the way you described it yes
but I think that a lot of people would
think that like constant support in that
radicular situation would get them to be
more confident yeah but that's actually
not what happens yeah okay
right cuz like you guys y'all will know
this if you have either been this person
or you have had a friend who's like this
that no matter how many times you tell
them that they are awesome people they
need to hear it again
that's so god I never you're blowing my
mind because I've never thought of it
that way
cuz I've been on the opposite end of
people that feel that way and me telling
them I'm like I feel like this is like
helping them like they're gonna feel
better and they may feel better than
they do feel better in the moment and
then after that just feeding the beast
exactly I didn't even I did I never
thought about it that way I always
thought it is like the solution was to
make continue to make them feel
absolutely and like let's just think
about that scientifically if that was
the solution if you did it for a couple
months they should be better then like
people wouldn't have if we look at it
systemic Lee as a society people have
confidence problems all the time
everyone's [ __ ] reassuring each other
if that was this good solution no one
would have conference problems the
solution so so what I really want to
encourage you to do Austin and we're
gonna talk about this in a second with
commercial pilot and fear of flying is
instead of taking something that doesn't
make sense and adjusting the data we
need to adjust the way that we look at
the data for the data to make sense the
data is the data just because it's
irrational for you to want to be a
commercial airline pilot and have a fear
of flying doesn't mean it's irrational
both both of those things exist in your
mind that doesn't mean it's a rational
we need to take a step back and assume
for a moment that's perfectly rational
perfectly rational and then we need to
understand understanding of the mind
that makes those two thoughts coexist
because that's actually what's happening
in your mind does that make sense
yeah it makes sense and it's it's weird
dr. K cuz I in the moment like I talked
about all the things that I do in the
fear and whatnot but it never would stop
me from wanting to go on an airplane
does that make sense it never wants to
cuz I like love the idea of flight and
like like flying flight simulator like I
love that I love everything that goes
into it I watch plane videos like it's
something that I like yeah I'm so we're
gonna be a course airline pilot yeah so
nice to really enjoy it sorry go ahead
so here we go okay so like here's the
thing you get on the flight and Austin
loves flying
and Austin's mom whose voice he's
internalized because that's what we do
Austin's mom's voice pops into your head
and it's like you're gonna die
and then there's like a conflict between
these two things because your mom taught
me right like they teach us things yeah
like I try to teach my kids to like
flush the toilet yeah and so like what's
happening in their tiny little mind and
like even even my so my youngest
daughter does this thing where she likes
to get off of the potty and then wipe
herself and then like that makes wiping
way harder right like wiping is easier
when you're on the potty
so I like try to teach her like we wipe
on the potty I wipe off the potty dr.
kay but I mean well actually I used to
know yeah I use a bidet now but okay
before you have to stand up I mean this
is a whole nother that debate okay
anyway it's not judging days be great if
you want me to judge you for being a
stick master we have to talk about so
now what she does is like when she's on
the potty she literally says the words
we wipe on the potty and I'm like yes we
wipe on the potty she has internalized
my voice because internalizing the voice
of our parents is what we call any idea
oh good
is this a quiz yes I'm putting you on
the spot internalizing dr. kay show more
parents voice is something that we call
its a read my mind question oh I learn
okay learning is its yeah it's the
hardest questions are the simplest ones
right I got it got it makes sense so
like that it's literally what learning
is like we don't even think about what
learning is like we just like to use the
word but like literally learning is like
the process of internalizing things
around us and like making it a part of
our thought process so like racism is
learned right like like it becomes
internal and then once we learn
something it's sort of like pops up it
starts generating certain thoughts
because like we understand it now and
so what I think happened in your case is
and this is just a preliminary thought
right is that like your mom taught you
and I that's that's the way I want you
to think about your anxiety it's not
that it's irrational it's that it's talk
she like literally taught you that like
if you put on a bike helmet if you don't
put on a bike helmet you're gonna get a
TBI and you're gonna die if you ever
drink alcohol you're gonna die if you
ever do this you're gonna die and then
we see that in your mind there's like
Austin who loves planes and then there's
your mom's voice who's ya gonna die and
anything happens is you're like that
doesn't make sense because Austin is
like no I'm not gonna die and then like
they have a little war in your head and
then you pull out your phone and then
you start to pull out all your things
then what you do is you kind of calm
down the anxiety but actually what
you're doing is feeding it because
you're not getting to the root of where
it comes from
you're like alleviating it from the top
it's like the root is that is not
reassurance you need to challenge the
very idea that you're gonna die that's
and that's in that for me that's a
challenge because if I don't know how to
explain this but it's this feeling of if
I let my guard down I'm gonna die yeah
if I like if I'm letting it it doesn't
make sense because let's face it dr. K
if I'm flying at 35,000 feet and I'm
gonna die
I can't me thinking me they like nah it
doesn't matter I'm gonna die right
that's just what's gonna happen if your
planes going down me in the back I'm
with my iphone looking up the flight in
the airspeed is it gonna change my you
know yeah so so this is where we learn
how to do things like sit with it okay
so now like I'm gonna give you an
alternate scenario I think if you want
your anxiety to improve over time mm-hmm
first thing that you've got to do is
like let yourself die bro like when
you're sitting there there's like
recognize first of all that like Austin
loves flying like Eli Gus is like I live
in stuff and then there's this other
part of you so we could call it the
voice of your mom but maybe it's maybe
she's just a contributor so the other so
yeah I'll talk about that in a second
because it may not be the voice of your
mom right the second there's just your
anxiety so your anxiety like I want you
to think about it like
Austin it's not a single-player game
it's like a party RPG and you've got a
bunch of characters in there and you've
got Austin right who's like your
protagonist and then you have your
anxiety which is actually a really
important member of your party it's not
actually irrational and bad it's not an
enemy this is what people think like
when we start calling it mental illness
which you know could be apply but we
think about it as an enemy but you gotta
understand your anxiety is helping you
out bro your anxiety is the part of your
mind which looks into the future
predicts danger and make sure you don't
screw up it's the same part of your mind
that is telling you hey it's time to
start calling myself Raj Patel or Austin
yeah right like it's it's saying like
hey like if I continue doing this bad
things could happen and like how is that
not a good part of your party right you
know like anxieties protect protective
that's why we have it like human beings
like why does the human brain think
about terrible things happening to us
because back when we were like monkeys
in the jungle we were walking around and
we would see a tiger footprint and there
were two kinds of monkeys one monkey was
like oh [ __ ] there's probably a tiger
behind that bush even though the
likelihood that the tiger behind the
bush was low you just need a little bit
of information and then you project
danger and then there was the monkey
that was like ah NBD and one of them got
eaten and one of them did yeah and so
anxiety is adapted it's a war asleep
yeah why do we still have those types of
people then like why do we like we still
have those people's that like like my
friends that I like fly with they get on
the plane and you know they order a
drink and they're just you know they
don't care and they just sit her and no
matter what happens what movement
they're just
yeah so great question so now we get to
like okay where does your anxiety come
from so here are the two hypotheses one
is they didn't have your mom mm-hmm
right so like when I had you when I went
on a flight my dad did the opposite I
would be anxious and he would be like
it's gonna be okay and he's like you
know it's gonna Rumble for a while and
then also I had like particular
experiences that I remember like
cognitively like I remember I used to be
scared of flights and then I would start
playing the Super Mario music in my head
because sometimes in Super Mario like
you'd get launched somewhere and it
would be like you know and so like I
started playing like literally in my
mind I started playing the Super Mario
music in my head and I'd pretend that I
was like Mario flying through space and
like that seemed to help I tried
something like that I would turn on you
I would try to turn on like happy like
music that like would sort of bring me
to like a normal place so I actually
like started playing and I only did this
for a brief period of time and then it's
frustrating because so I know I'm trying
to distract myself this is the
difference I wasn't trying to distract
myself I was trying to change I was
sitting with the feeling of flying and
changing the framework around it I
wasn't trying to distract myself at all
okay does that make sense yeah okay yeah
cuz when I when I think because I tried
playing the song I tried playing the
song big ol jet airliner by Steve Miller
you know daran daran big ol jet line and
it was like a happy like yeah you know
going on the road and doing like fun
stuff but and like I would listen to
that on takeoff which is like the part
of the flight where I'm like most
anxious and in my head like it kind of
helped a little bit but I just stopped
doing it because again I feel like if
I'm actively trying to and again I
understand what you said by the way
about what your how you were doing but
in my head I was like I know I know
intuitively what I'm doing is trying to
take my mind off of the
the anxiety around flight and in that in
my head that's letting my guard down and
I must be ready to look at everything
and know what's happening all the time
yeah so so let's just clarify for a
second I get that you understood what I
said so I'm gonna explain it just as
clearly as I can so when you face
anxiety you've got a couple of options
one is to distract yourself one is to
feed it or reassure yourself by giving
in to it okay the third option is to be
with it but like not do anything and and
somehow I was lucky enough to stumble on
I think it's just random chance it's not
like I was smart or anything it was just
like I just stumbled on like this this
way of sitting fully with my feelings I
wasn't trying to move away from them I
just sort of pretended it was like in a
different context and even now I find
myself doing that on flights for a few
seconds and I still feel uncomfortable
and like I sit with the feeling kind of
fully and so you can kind of sit with it
which is what I think you need to learn
how to do but that's challenging because
it's sort of like sitting with like a
hungry stomach right so like it's gonna
want things and it's gonna like grab at
you Austin it's gonna be like I need
this I give this to me give this to me
give this to me I have a question when
you're ya know kuffar why do I feel cuz
I'm not like completely I don't want you
know don't I'm not anxious throughout
the entire like there are there are
moments of flight where I feel clunk
calm but not consistently like it just
depends right it varies by flight right
there are moments during the flight
where I am calm but then but that's when
you know we're flying smoothly we're at
cruise altitude everything's smooth as
soon as we hit a bump my heart starts
racing the phones out again looking you
know it the weather like what's gonna
happen how long are we gonna be flying
through this you know I do things like I
go like you know I'm taking you through
exactly like if you're watching me on a
plane I go like this I like I grab on to
myself like I claw unto myself when I
grab on
on to things like I I put my hands in my
face I start to like panic during during
turbulence and thing in the crazy thing
about this dr. K is I understand
logically
that turbulence in the forces on earth
have literally never taken down a
commercial aircraft there was one
incident of it and it was like in the
60s back when claims were made out of
cardboard you know or whatnot but it's
just not rational in the modern world
for turbulence to impact the aircraft
but for me the the the thought in my
head at that moment is when I feel the
turbulence I know turbulence isn't crazy
but but like I can't a suit like what if
it wasn't turbulence what if it was what
if something else is going wrong what if
what if we are in that crazy type of
turbulence it could impact the aircraft
you know sure yes oh that's so we're
gonna talk about some scars and kind of
getting I have had some traumatic
experience flying and I could I don't
know if that helps that certainly hurts
uh yeah and I'll tell you my anxiety
around flying has gotten worse since
this one particular experience yeah so I
describe it to you if you were hurt go
for it um I went on a flight from and
this might not have even been bad
because it just felt bad right I went on
a flight from Los Angeles to Nashville
and on Southwest Airlines and I would we
were in there and the pilot came over
and he said hey were experiencing some
you know we're about to experience some
severe turbulence and the flight
attendants are gonna be seated
you know nothing normal or abnormal I
don't know if he used the word severe I
can't recall exactly but he said you
know some significant turbulence and we
told that told him to seat the flight
attendants the flight since receded and
then the flight attendants came over to
reiterate how like critical it was that
you were in your seat because you know
some people don't usually take it
seriously and I and they mentioned that
it was a thunderstorm and this I was
still a augment admittedly I was looking
at my phone at this time like checking
whether and still doing those sorts of
things and so I look and there was a
thunderstorm that extended the entire
central United States and it
almost impossible to fly around and
being being somebody that knows aviation
one of the more dangerous things to
aircraft is severe thunderstorms because
that's like something that can actually
impact air speed and when you impact air
speed there's a you know the it's just
all sorts of like things that that go
through my head so I'm a little scared
right I'm a little scared and but not
like crazy scared cuz you know again
this is this is you know I've been
through stuff you know this this didn't
seem bad but immediately we start going
through and let me tell you the plane
was thrashing people were screaming
people I look up the aisle people are
holding hands I was holding hands with a
woman next to me I was like oh my god I
was I was like on the verge of tears
there was a guy next to me rubbing my
shoulder and other people were freaking
out and in that experience I can hear
the engines going
because when you're in turbulence and
the and the plane is like going through
this like pilots often step climb and go
up and down out the treats to try to
find smooth air but in my head in that
moment I'm not sure what what's going on
because I can't see anything so and
we're in a black cloud you look outside
the window it's black out there and you
can't see anything so there's no frame
of reference you feel the plane going up
and down you hear the engines and it was
just very very like scary it very
traumatizing to me I was shaking I
remember I was so like happy that like
it was over with that I bought like the
entire people around me drinks I said
drinks on me I'm so happy to be alive
who wants to drink I don't even drink
dr. K as I said like I don't I got a
drink cuz I was like let's celebrate and
so I bought drinks as it drinks on
everybody and I bought everybody like I
don't know remember what it was but
everybody get drinks and thank God the
whole plane didn't go get want drinks
cuz then I would have had serious bill
but but that was an experience that I
had that was very traumatizing and I had
a similar experience not as bad but
going into Las Vegas you know how Las
Vegas is from LA to Las Vegas is
notoriously bad for like turbulence and
stuff I went into Las Vegas crazy
updrafts and I remember sitting I was
sitting next to this girl at this
Australian girl and she and I was like
going through my panicky thing and she
looks at me she says you're not gonna
die and like you know like like I was
being so rational and you know anyway
sort of I was just exported like the the
experience that I had after the fact but
still but yeah that's not it's not
nothing happened but still but let's
start with this how does that how does
it feel that I mean I've shared it
before I might have even shared it on
streem but it feels like I feel happy to
be that I survived that you know even
though you know I know that we probably
were never in danger ever you know but
still I felt like I was and I feel like
I we I survived it I feel good about
that so let's think about this on the
ground so what does that do
to your anxiety does it increase it or
decrease it like when I talk about it
let's start with the experiences the
experience like I talked about it and I
laugh about it right now
because I'm on the ground and I'm not
Europe I'm not going on a plane but when
I get on the plane and I'm not
necessarily saying I consciously think
about that one particular experience but
when I get on a plane I start to fear
that I'm going to go through that again
absolutely it starts to jump or anything
so I get where's the thing Austin you've
just fed your anxiety so much not
default right but like because the thing
is like the voice let's just assume for
a second it's the voice of your mom and
we got to go back and and kind of talk
about how it couldn't may not be but I'm
just gonna call it that so the voice of
your mom is like just think about all
the times that she told me to do
something and then you sort of deviated
off course and how much she liked even
more flipped her [ __ ] looks like she's
like you gotta wear her helmet otherwise
you're gonna die and then you wear your
helmet I have an interesting thing about
the helmet thing it happened later in
life though and I don't know if it
really let's steer clear stories for a
second sure but her you know it sounds
to me like you should definitely find
someone to talk to because it sounds
like you yes Yeah right so like this is
this is how no no don't apologize it's
just like this is how emotional
processing works like the stuff has to
come out mm-hmm right it's not like
reassurance it's like you just gotta
like go back to those feelings and
actually what you need to do is like sit
with those feelings and not and kind of
like decompress them so it's almost sort
of like exposure therapy where you know
what you do is like if you're afraid of
dogs like you just go and you like look
at a dog and then you let those feelings
arise and then you don't go anywhere
with them you don't run away from the
dog and then you don't like force
yourself to pet the dog because that's
irrational and so you got to force
yourself to no you just like sit with it
and you let the like you let the
feelings come up you let them just hang
out for a while and you do nothing and
so sometimes in therapy like that's
something that people do there's like a
technique called the EMDR that oh that
has
you know mix evidence behind it but some
people find it very useful what do you
like recall a traumatic experience but
you're basically doing sort of like a
meditation kind of thing while you're
recalling the experience so your mind
can't fully go back into that space it's
sort of like half here and half there
which allows you to sort of like swim in
that water which without getting
something you know going under anyway in
your case I think what's happening is
like those kinds of things are feeding
your anxiety because remember before
that happened everything was irrational
but now your anxiety is like but that
almost happened right it's like this is
everything we were afraid of and like
sure we made it this time like before
that it like you had a one in a hundred
chance of going down in a thunderstorm
before the thunderstorm it was like one
in a million and now your anxiety is
like if that happens 99 more times we're
[ __ ] right the Las Vegas is like 1 in
2,000 but like the thing is it's like
it's reinforcing the basic idea that
your anxiety has that like things can go
wrong on a plane and this is the other
really weird thing is that your
knowledge of aviation do you think that
makes your anxiety better or makes it
worse I've I've drawn almost wonder if
it makes it worse because I know a lot I
know what can go wrong on a plane yeah
and it's not perfect so so this is where
this is where I want you to just oh man
there's just so much to explain but ok
so like I want you to understand that
like what happens is your knowledge of
the airplane is hijacked by your anxiety
that which should reassure you because
you know all the statistics actually
somehow it gets like hijacked by the air
like the the anxiety to like be used
against you it's like Austin knows like
oh like actually flying is safe and like
you know I can't I've never met a person
who knows when the last accident related
to turbulence was I like literally never
met that person I was in Fiji in 1960
something I frightened so that's what
anxious people
they have all kinds they understand what
they're anxious about in and out and it
only seems to make things worse right
whereas we have this assumption that the
more you learn about something the more
your anxiety should go down you should
be reassured by knowledge but if we
actually look at the data that's not how
it works
knowledge and by the way it's like if
you read less about airplanes I don't
know that your anxiety would be less I
think it just it's just like it uses it
it uses your anxiety is gonna use
whatever it can in your mind because
anxiety is a feeling and it's gonna wrap
whatever logical [ __ ] it can to like
bring in to itself it doesn't matter
what I have a question yeah
I want to know if this is unhealthy
because I genuinely enjoy it it doesn't
make me anxious in the moment but I do
watch like aircraft disaster things like
disaster you know YouTube video you know
it's you know okay like I do that
because I enjoy like the educational
portion of it like what happened what
went wrong
but like I don't know like I don't know
if this was like a like a like a sort of
like a I know it sounds so dumb like why
would you watch that if you're afraid of
it but it's almost like I want my
justification in my head is number one I
like enjoy like seeing the aviation
portion I like it but number two I want
to know what went wrong and what steps
they took to fix it so like now I know
when I go on a plane that the likelihood
of that particular situation isn't gonna
happen again sort of thing
yes yeah makes a lot of sense so the
short answer is like yes and no does it
is it a good idea or bad idea so it's
fine because remember that Austin likes
aviation that has nothing to do with
your anxiety right like if it's not
triggering for you I think it's fine to
watch it and we see the second piece too
which is that the reassurance piece is
actually feeding your anxiety but
anything you do to reassure yourself is
gonna feed anxiety right you see that
yeah and I'm not actively thinking about
these disaster videos in flight like oh
I'm gonna be that flight yeah so I mean
it sounds like it's like I think that I
think that the solution to your anxiety
does not involve
in a significant way stopping - watching
youtube videos about aviation okay I
think the solution to your anxiety is
like pretty simple and it's like the
solution to like most anxiety which
we'll get to in a second but let's go
back to the origin for a second okay so
is this the voice of your mom that's
what it looks ounds like right that's
the best example of a smoking gun that
we've got but there are a couple of
other things which I want to clue people
in on so first of all really interesting
study okay so they took kids diagnosed
with anxiety who have had parents who
had diagnosed nosis of anxiety and they
found that treating the parent
actually treats the child even after the
FET or just whether a child okay so like
if I if I take a child like a ten year
old with an anxiety disorder and I take
their 35 year old mom with an anxiety
disorder and I give the 10 year old
medication and I in one group I give I
medicate the child and in the other
group I medicate the mom both results
are the same
wow that's incredible phrase because the
source of the anxiety is the theory that
the sort the anxiety came from the
mother or the person with the anxiety
yeah sort of like that's what the data
suggests right so then there are a
couple of other things so we know that
anxiety disorders run in families so
there is an inherited component so there
may just be something and I do think I
don't think it's just your mom so I
think your brain Austin as evidenced by
your professional success is very good
at projecting catastrophe which actually
helps you succeed professionally because
your brain is capable of considering ups
and downs that the average person may
not be able to consider which can is
attentive and beneficial to you so you
would avoided certain pitfalls and you
also can put eyes on some low
possibility things because you were able
to predict them because all anxiety is
is your predictive capability right the
better you are at predicting the worse
your anxiety is gonna be yeah I can see
that so so one thing is that like you
may just have an inherited component
which may not be like due to the
environment of your mom it could just be
like genetically your neurons are sort
of wired to be like a little bit more
anxious you probably have high trait
neuroticism which is another personality
component sure second thing is that
going no you go ahead no please so no so
second thing is like better you learn to
listen sorry second thing is that you
know I do think that it sort of makes
sense to me that you were taught to be
fearful you were taught to be fearful so
that's how I would reframe your anxiety
is like this is your conditioning it's
not irrational its conditioning and
conditioning can absolutely be
irrational like then you're like why am
i this way it's because you're [ __ ]
conditioned and that solves everything
it's weird I'm starting to think because
my mother like but my dad is also kind
of paranoid
it keeps kind of paranoid too like I'm
not saying I don't think my mom when I
think of somebody that has anxiety I
think of my mom because she's she like
shares many traits with me in terms of
like my personality and and stuff but my
dad is also paranoid in like different
areas like my dad a walk on a plane and
you know he'll eat an edible and he'll
be passed out and doesn't care right
doesn't care doesn't give a rip just
chill him with his coffee you know
chilling and you know whatever he'll
he'll go someplace and not worry about
anything you know yeah now now now
everybody knows where I got it from no
I'm just kidding
but uh but but my dad like he's also
very like paranoid about other things
like he's like different things that are
different from my mother
like it's different aspects of life I'm
trying to think of like an example and
is your blind a combination of those two
people often say that I have my
personalities like my mother and my like
more people say like my more like if you
will like
trying to think of it a personality
mother people say that my dad is is very
much like a like sort of like my more my
more rational side if you will like I
don't I want to say my mom's irrational
but like my more yes like in if I had
and I'm not saying my mom's stupid right
but if I had like a more intellectual
like critical thinking side it would be
from my dad right my mom's not that way
but that like my my habits sorry good
yeah so so so well so Austin I'm just
noticing there's a lot left to talk
about so we'll talk about how to talk
about what's left to talk about
cuz we you know I want I don't want to
give you the sense that I'm not offering
you complete picture I'm giving you like
10% because there's you know individuals
are like I'm gonna share a couple
principles with you we can talk a little
bit more about that but I want to get to
a couple of other things just about
generally speaking the origin of anxiety
so what is like we can think that you
are conditioned so the other big place
that anxiety comes from is actually what
I asked you earlier about like so you
can learn you can learn to be afraid of
catastrophe in two ways one is that you
can be taught to be afraid of
catastrophe by like your parents or you
can actually have faced catastrophe
before and then your mind then it's no
longer theoretic right because if it's
happened to you then it's actually a
possibility and so I'll just give you
like an example which of a patient of
mine who has allowed me to share this
component because she thinks it would be
helpful so she's someone who had anxiety
for like 17 years and then at this like
and it was irrational right like she
would always like think about horrible
things going wrong and and the more that
we kind of talked about her it was just
so she had lost her or father due to
cancer and so like that had been
explored in therapy as well and like
like if she had kind of talked about the
loss and how that was like sad and
grievous and and all that kind of stuff
and so she sort of been like okay so
like lost dad like sometimes that leads
to an anxiety disorder didn't seem to be
the case
she was actually anxious before she lost
her dad so the question is like when did
you become anxious so like it turns out
that the root Harang her anxiety is that
when she was like 6 or so
she knew her dad had cancer she like
knew something was wrong and everyone
told her everything was okay
but in her heart of hearts she felt like
something was true and she was taught
that she was irrational when in fact
she's been right all along and so her
sense of what is real and unreal got
[ __ ] up at a young age and the second
she ought not the second but over the
course of a couple of weeks is she
realized that like her problem her
freedom from anxiety was not in calling
it irrational it was in recognizing that
it's actually very rational it's the
opposite and then she got better because
she's like oh like these feelings that I
have are not wrong they're actually
right and that allowed her to sit with
them and it's like your fears are real
they're not wrong and the whole reason
that our anxiety never gets better is
because she actually like invalidates
her feelings and she assumes she's
irrational she assumes something is
broken when actually it's working fine
and then like how the [ __ ] like no
wonder you can't drive your car properly
because you're pretending like you have
a flat and your tires fine right so in
my experience comes from two places
either conditioning or an event where
the catastrophe actually happened and
then it's like no longer irrational for
you it's a reality it actually happened
so this is why like you know people who
have bad [ __ ] happen to them to develop
anxiety disorders because like something
happens where that one-in-a-million
thing like I had another patient who was
like attacked in a gas station bathroom
by like a 13 year old male patient who
was attacked in a bathroom by like a 30
year old truck driver like sexually
in a gas station bathroom and like after
that he's got anxiety because think
about the worst thing that you could
possibly think about when you're 13 and
think about how irrational it is for
that [ __ ] to happen and then this
confess to you and the low likelihood of
the world getting hit by a meteor is
actually like this is way worse and the
worst thing can happen to you I have a
question yeah is Earth's is there such
thing as a combination of both like
solutely sort of okay so that's why I so
so I think I think if you feel like your
mom is not all of the picture Isis I
don't suspect one of the hypotheses is
that something happened to you that felt
incredibly catastrophic that because of
the way that your mind tends to discount
the way that you feel because you're
irrational and you just invalidate
yourself all the time I don't even know
that you're able to like go back there
because you probably felt like it was so
stupid and insignificant
and that my mind that I like I can't
even remember because I heard it all
exactly exactly and this is exactly what
happened with the other patient which is
that she thought that actually losing
her dad is so much more of a logical
thing that should contribute to anxiety
then knowing that your dad was sick is
like her actual memories where the
anxiety was born was like seeing like
they would like her dad wouldn't go into
work one day and he'd like go to the
clinic and they'd like drop him off to
get chemotherapy and then she'd be like
what why are we here and they're like oh
not everything's okay everything's okay
and then her dad would like come back
from chemotherapy and he'd be like he
looked sick he'd be like sunken and he'd
lose weight and she's like what's wrong
with that and they'd say nothing and
actually that's way worse than losing
him because she was six and then when
she was like 18 and her dad was actually
dying she could understand what was
happening and also they were like they
were telling her reality right her
disconnection if you think about anxiety
you keep on saying it's so rational it's
so rational that disconnection from
reality happens at six because she
actually got disconnected from reality
and so it's not irrational for your mind
to be disconnected from reality because
that's what
you learn you learned that everything
that you feel is not actually correct
that's what she learned right and
somewhere along the way you learned this
stuff you're not broken man
like it's just how your mind has learned
how to function
so there there may be an experience
somewhere in there where like you felt
like it could be something dumb like
forgetting your homework
and it could be something where like you
were afraid are you getting emotional no
I'm good I think it's very powerful what
you said because I've always out of it
is saying it's irrational I've always
thought irrational rational rational and
I've heart on that and I thought that
was a productive thing to do like my
fear is irrational that's that's all
that I thought that that was like a
solution to no problem so awesome I
return you to what I said earlier about
being scientific everyone thinks that
their fear is irrational and what does
it do to their anxiety doesn't help it
absolutely so that's not a useful
framework because data suggests it
doesn't work so let's stop thinking it
even though we think it's right it
sounds rational for us to approach
anxiety as irrational right but it's
just not because it doesn't work it's
not it doesn't mirror actual reality so
we need to be more open-minded right I'd
never thought of it that way
ever yeah so you heard it in passing but
this is like so the last thing is that
you know are your parents to blame
because I think in order for you to
understand where this comes from you
have to let your parents take some
responsibility for this so I want to
help you do that and let me just say
this no matter how good of a parent you
are there's gonna be collateral damage
for your kids doesn't mean that they did
a bad job it's clear that they did a
great job and they're not perfect nor
should we expect them to be perfect and
they kind of screwed you up in some ways
which is what parents do
like my kids are gonna be screwed up in
some ways it doesn't like there's no way
to avoid that like it's just like the
goal is for parents to be like good
enough right it's not for them to be
perfect and it's okay like my parents
like I'm a pretty healthy human being
and I'm grateful for my upbringing I
think my parents are awesome and they
screwed me up in some ways that's just
part of life like there is no
parent-child relationship I have ever
seen no matter how good the parent is
where the child is not a little bit
[ __ ] up just how it works you know
they do the best that they can and then
you try to because I'm sure there are
some things you've already decided that
you're gonna do differently from your
parents if you ever I don't
and everyone thinks that and that that
doesn't make your parents bad it's just
like they're not perfect and I think you
know we definitely see it's interesting
because when we hear about your mom and
this this kind of you know this
conditioning and all that kind of crap
and it's actually borne out in evidence
as well that like if if maybe your mom
had treated had been treated you may not
have had the anxiety that you do to
think we don't blame her for that
because she did the best that she could
right it's in the same way that we don't
blame you for calling yourself Raj Patel
a while ago because you didn't know any
better like isn't wrong sure but like we
don't blame you for it cuz it you know
in the same way like could she have done
better sure but we don't blame her for
it like she did the best that she could
she did a really good job we could be
grateful and be like okay so like now we
know that does that make sense
yeah it makes sense so I do have a
question though yeah and this is the
hard part that I have with this and
associate and blame to my parents
because and this is sort of in the
process of getting older and maybe
people can relate to this but when you
grow up you sort of have a perfect image
of your parents and they can do no wrong
you know that sort of thing and the idea
to like say blame it's just like I don't
know why and I understand what what
you're saying but in my mind my mind
immediately goes to as soon as they I
would say blame to my parents that would
implicate them as like being just bad
just because like how people perceive if
that's the only thing people have heard
from my parents that they were the
reason why I'm so anxious I'm afraid
that they would think that they're bad
parents and you logically you being who
you are I understand that you wouldn't
get it that way but I don't want anybody
else to think that way or like the
public image of them being like bad
parents you know what I mean
yeah so I mean I think that's just where
like as human beings we need to be more
nuanced right right so like I'll share
with you another story if that's okay
yes I had another patient who also you
know okay with me sharing just that like
yep so he also
uh you know lost a parent when he was
young and then I would ask him about
like you know what was your other parent
like and he said my other parent did the
did the best study that they could and I
sort of like thought it was weird that
like you know okay fine they did the
best they of course right that's what
all parents do is they did the best they
could but like I was like you know have
house your house your dad
like he did the best that he could and
then we kind of talked a little bit and
turns out that like after work his dad
would like usually go to the bar and
like have a couple beers with his
friends and that was like kind of a
daily occurrence and he was grieving and
stuff like that so patient really blame
him he's like you know he's like the
dude lost a wife it's got to be tough he
did the best that he could what do you
think though is that like he never says
that his dad did a great job he says
that his dad did the best that he could
all right so there's like there's no
blame but there's also like a subtle
under the surface acknowledgement that
like I mean his son had lost a mother
and he instead of coming home because he
had certain needs of like dealing with
zone emotions like hung out in a bar and
it's really hard to blame him for that
but it's really important to do that
right it's it's it's one thing because
here's the problem that he had he
couldn't forgive his dad because you
can't forgive someone unless they did
something wrong and in his mind he was
making excuses so like there's no chance
for forgiveness so oddly enough his path
forward was to acknowledge that like his
dad did the best that he could I don't
blame him for that and forgive him for
being not a perfect parent and now he's
fine like it's like been settled like he
doesn't hold a grudge he doesn't talk
[ __ ] about his dad know when things his
dad is a bad person that's where
conflation happens that's where like
pitchforks come out right and you can
like and this is where like you have to
I think it's healthy as a child to
recognize that your parents are flawed
because they're not perfect it's healthy
you have to grow into recognizing that
your parents did the best study that
they could and you don't blame for that
but it [ __ ] a couple of things up and
like that's actually okay like we need
to live in a world where instead of
expecting people to be perfect we need
to like understand that they're not
like actually be okay with that it's
about sitting with it right not making
it go away not treating it not
discounting with it just sitting with it
and saying that's the way they are
they're not perfect and I'm grateful to
them I mean I think there's no doubt in
anyone's mind because watch this whole
stream that you were incredibly grateful
to your parents and they're incredibly
proud of you and just because your
anxiety is related to them doesn't
change any of that we need to be able to
hold two contrary concepts in our mind
which is not something that our that
we're good at as a society
I love planes I have a fear of flying
those can absolutely coexist right
someone is a bad person and I mean this
is gonna be kind of controversial but
like this is just what I've you know
what I when you work with criminals
sometimes you begin to see that people
can do deplorable things but it doesn't
make them absolute incarnations of evil
right that sometimes like it's bizarre
like when you work with someone who is a
sexual abuser who in turn was sexually
abused
does it absolve them of responsibility
of their actions absolutely not
shouldn't they be punished absolutely
and like sometimes there should be room
for compassion I'm not asking anyone to
do that that's been my personal
experience that I have come to deal with
people and the more that I see the world
is less black-and-white I'm not trying
to be an apologist for rape or anything
like that I I mean I think they deserve
to be in jail and also like once they're
in jail you know it doesn't mean that we
should I personally choose to try to be
compassionate towards as many people as
I can which I'm not expecting other
people to do but what I want to say talk
about things being misinterpreted and
conflated of the internet time and
feathering you know what I want to say
is that we should be able to hold two
things at the same time right that like
that your parents did a wonderful job
and they weren't perfect and that like
you need to get your own anxiety
disorder if you have one treated if you
get kids yeah
I have a question yeah I've been its
medicating myself for anxiety and and I
know I don't smoke weed for my anxiety
in fact it sometimes it makes it
incredibly worse I smoke weed because it
makes food taste good and you know and
other other stuff feel good you know
but i i've been very against medication
do you have like a particular stance on
that sure I think if you're against
medication don't take medication fair
enough that's I feel like it's cheating
and I'm like I'm almost anxious to take
this is kind of messed up have you seen
a psychiatrist or like had an evaluation
for anxiety
no it just sort of just sort of known
that I have it and like it's a problem
okay so I would start there okay and I
would start there
and then you know I would listen to the
option so be careful about the kind of
like mental health treatment provider
you go to because some psychiatrists or
psycho pharmacologists which means that
they will see like three to four
patients an hour and they basically
prescribe medications
that's literally with their job it's
like it's like a psychopharmacology
position so in my experience so just a
couple of things about data okay so
let's talk about data for a second
psychotherapy is about as equal as as
effective as medication they're just as
good psychotherapy plus medication
outperforms either one on one in my
personal experience I prescribed
medications to about twenty to thirty
percent of my patients so sometimes like
the question the real question about
medication it's not like a value
judgment or anything like that I think
is just like a tool in your tool belt
and you shouldn't have a bias against it
or think that it's like people do think
it's sort of like a crotch or a weakness
or things like that I mean I prescribe
medication depending on what's going on
I'm not afraid of it being like a stigma
I'm just like afraid of what it would do
to my mind like sure that's valid yes I
want to do withdrawals associated with
it you know so I think that's something
you should bring up with your providers
I get that fear a lot and I manage it
pretty well I'll tell people okay like
here's what I understand about
withdrawals and things like that so the
first thing I would tell
is that for the most part your brain is
developed so developing brains are more
vulnerable than developed brains because
your brain is like growing with this
chemical around right still at the same
time like you know sometimes 16
year-olds get prescribed antidepressants
or anti-anxiety medications that's fine
I think John yeah is it weird that like
I'm afraid to take like I'm not and I'm
not prescribed it but like the idea of
taking like like what do they call that
medication that just like it's like one
of those you you're not supposed to take
it all the time it's an anxiety
medication okay then X yeah I'd be
afraid to take it because I'd afraid
that it would kill me or something
even though like it's even if it was
prescribed to me I'd be afraid that it
would kill me or like it was something
would happen bad yeah so that is I okay
this is kind of a loaded term that's an
irrational fear right okay so most fear
by definition is irrational because it's
an emotion it's a different part of the
brain at the same time I think it's
completely reasonable and rational for
you to have that fear mm-hmm right so
like fears aren't rational by their
nature I think it's I think you should
be concerned about xanax so I do my
level best to never prescribed xanax
personally because it's highly addictive
and it works
entirely too well that's that's that's
part of my fear is that I would get
addicted to it because it would work so
well yeah that's anxious I take it and
it would get away my anxiety and just
the frequency of how often I am a I
would be taking it every time I felt
like yeah and then one of these so in my
training program like they really taught
us conditioned us to fear xanax okay and
like they're always like there's a
there's a pit in my stomach I remember
when I would work like impatient like so
when people get hospitalized when I look
at the patient's medication list any
time I saw xanax I liked like mice like
I would feel a pit in my cell right like
oh [ __ ] yeah it's gonna be hard to deal
with this person because it's hard to
get off the Medicaid it's not the
person's fault right right
it makes prescribed usually as like as
needed or is it like a like sometimes
prescribed like generally it's
supposed to be used as needed and
they're there like a handful of people
for whom you can really get away with
xanax and like those people are people
who have like fears of flying or like
public speaking where like you know the
as-needed is not something that by
definition can happen every day like
someone who needs an X like two to three
times a year would be the kind of person
that I would prescribe xanax for
other medications and it's completely
reasonable for you to be afraid of
medications I have been prescribed
something like I'm sorry I interrupted
you go ahead go ahead
I've been prescribed not xanax but some
or other hydroxyzine is that the correct
yeah that hydroxyzine they typically
used as like a anti-allergy but it was
used to be treated as anxiety yeah and
also that's sort of in the same family
as benadryl just stronger correct I
don't know about stronger but yeah okay
everything else is correct okay yes so
that's one of the things that I've so
the reason that a lot of people will use
hydroxyzine is because it is a
anti-anxiety agent that acts quickly so
there are two kinds of anti-anxiety
agents those that lower your baseline
level of anxiety so those are not as
needed medications those are things that
you take every day so if we think about
heart disease for example there are
medications that you take for your heart
that will like lower your blood pressure
on a daily basis and then there are some
acute blood-pressure agents that we'll
use to like in seconds if you're having
a heart attack
drop your blood pressure so that your
art can pump normally or anyway that's
not actually how they work but so that
they're like in medicine we have acute
agents and then we have like long-term
agents and for anxiety treatment there
are both kinds they're the kinds that
you use for acute anxiety and then there
are those that you use to lower baseline
levels of anxiety that experience from
day to day the reason that a lot of
people use hydroxyzine is because
hydroxyzine is not habit-forming so it's
not addictive like xanax or
benzodiazepines which are addictive
they're basically like alcohol in like
pill form and modified and so you know
it sort of makes sense it signals to me
that the prescriber who prescribed that
to you is probably doing it generally
speaking a good job yeah and I also
express my like fear of those at benzos
but most and I would I would really
recommend that you get a thorough mental
health evaluation because there's a lot
of information that we haven't
talked about which is actually really
important important in determining
whether you have an a true anxiety
disorder and that includes like we
haven't I don't ask some basic questions
like how often do you have anxiety you
know like it was I'm just giving that as
an example right so there's a lot of
other stuff like I haven't asked you so
sometimes anxieties related to actually
physical conditions so endocrine
imbalances like if you have your thyroid
hormone is too high there's a lot of
other due diligence that needs to happen
before someone diagnoses you with
anxiety well what I tried to do today
and I guess now I'm sort of explaining
myself is explain that dealing with
anxiety is of medical illness is
actually a completely different thing
than helping a human being understand
how anxiety in their mind interrupts
right both of those will hopefully
alleviate anxiety but one is like more
educational and like in terms of
treatment it sounds like you really do
need an evaluation so I would strongly
encourage you to get I really want
therapy for that because like it's
anybody anybody that has anxiety like I
have moments of clarity and it's not
like an everyday thing okay there I go
again see trying to justify that it's
not and so we're like the more it's it's
it's absolutely crippling it's crippling
and it's it sucks you can't enjoy
certain things that you want to enjoy
because it's absolutely crippling to you
and it sucks and I want it to just be a
way I just don't want have to worry
about you yeah so in Masan here's my
general thought about medication just
strategically why I prescribe it okay
there are different options for you to
no longer make it crippling if you can
engage in those then I don't think you
need medication if you're unable to
engage in those that's what a pill is
for right if you can meditate do yoga
and exercise adjust your dot diet get a
nice Ayurvedic diet going and all this
kind of crap go to your therapist and
there aren't any like houses burning
down and you can afford to deal with the
damage from anxiety while all this other
stuff works because that stuff takes
time then you don't need medication the
reason that I recommend medication is
because first of all sometimes people
have lifestyles where they can't do the
other things the know
pharmacologic treatments for anxiety so
depending on what your life is like you
may not be able to do that stuff
the second reason is because there's a
certain acuity like so sometimes if
someone is depressed and they're on the
cusp of getting fired
they don't have six to eight months to
start doing all this front they have to
like do something now students is
another good example like if you're a
sophomore in college and you're
depressed you don't have nine months of
you can't be depressed for two semesters
because that's going to tank your GPA
and then you're gonna have to deal with
that for the rest of your life so it's
like a very individual conversation
about your circumstances risks benefits
and for you to make the right choice
like given all of these things and you
should probably also as part of that you
know anxiety evaluation get like certain
lab tests and things like that because
the last thing that you want to do is be
talking to someone about your feelings
when your thyroid hormone is way too
high because that says the like it
depends in general it depends okay
generally speaking I test a lot of stuff
for people with depression less stuff
from people with anxiety okay because
they could just ask you other questions
that like if your thyroid was out of
whack like you'd have other symptoms too
right
okay that makes sense yeah it's
interesting you mentioned well I don't
want to tell my family that's probably
not something I should get into yeah
family history that's why this isn't
medical advice right if I was your
doctor we would definitely have to talk
about that because there's no way to
make an accurate diagnosis without all
of that information is the thyroid
associated with anxiety sure if it's too
high interesting
but I don't yeah too low leads to
depression too high leads to anxiety
interesting but it's just interesting
I'll share that with you off stream
while that's interesting other time but
yeah sure interesting
share it with an actual doctor bro yeah
well this but I don't like I've never
had like a psychologist or anything like
that it's more of like than a general
general care physician yeah but yeah
it's more of like a like if not me
personally I don't know but see I don't
even know if my my thyroid has been
checked about that sort of thing you can
general your primary care physician
about it yeah I thought that they would
just do that in like a test given and
also like my mom and I shared the same
doctor for an extended period of time
and they knew about my mom's history so
I you would think but anyway sorry
that's probably another conversation
yeah so here's what I just say real
quick about that is that like there are
a lot of things that doctors should do
and the reason that oftentimes they
don't do them is not because they're bad
doctors but because they've just got way
too much other [ __ ] to do mmm-hmm and
it's hard for them to analyze their
their patients to the depth yeah so I
think it just sort of depends on like I
think it's good to have a conversation
with your doctor about it and like you
know can I tell you learn through this
yeah my tendency to push things away and
say I'm not it's not a problem or try to
like be like it's not an issue I'm like
most of the time I'm good that tendency
has been communicate like because of
that it's how it's impacted the way I've
communicated with doctors and people
professionals and and people in my life
so nobody really like I've pushed it off
as an issue so I really haven't talked
about it and maybe that's a problem like
I've talked about it but I haven't
really like yeah every time I about it I
push up I'm like yeah I have these
anxious things and it's really bad but
but like I can be I can still live my
life and I can still do things like so
maybe yes it's good that you recognize
that because as a doctor I can tell you
one of the most difficult things is
having a patient who has a problem that
they met
right so then like if they say like hey
sometimes I get anxious and I'm like oh
does it like how bad of a problem is it
you're like it's no big deal
and I'm like spider I really thank you
for that because I didn't think about
just like an epiphany I didn't even
think about it that way ever yeah what
are they supposed to do with that they
supposed to take it as are they supposed
to test your thyroid because you're kind
of saying it's not that big of a deal
right this anxiety have anything to do
with control sure wanting is that what
it's all about like wanting control
about oh no I don't think so but I think
that control is one of the foods for
anxiety that we talked about because if
you can control then you don't have to
worry but it doesn't deal with the
source of the word mm-hmm right so like
if you think about when you pull up the
cell phone even though you're not
controlling it's in the same vein as
controlling right like you're like
giving yourself order around your fear
to reduce your fear
and so do pecan people get better like
that sass stupid question of course they
can but like I can't even in my head
being so consciously aware of the
problem and like even being conscious of
like maybe even a solution to fix it
it's hard for me to go through that like
the gymnastics to say that's going to
get that's going to improve because I'm
conscious of certain things okay let's
talk about this for a second you said
that's a stupid question is it a stupid
question I guess not why not
I'm thinking that's in my head and I'm
thinking it good excellent great place
to start so now the question becomes why
are you thinking that because I feel
like if I'm aware of what's wrong I
should it shouldn't be a problem if I'm
aware of the problem why shouldn't why
should like why can't I fix it yeah so
beautiful so like I'm gonna phrase it a
different way I think that's a
manifestation of what I'm about to say
the reason it's not a stupid question is
because you have no experience of having
fixed yeah so why on earth would we
expect you to believe that something is
fixable if you flipped it your entire
life yeah it's like telling a deaf
person like oh yeah you can hear and
they're like that sounds dumb and so if
you've lived with anxiety your entire
life it's completely normal to feel
skeptical that this kind of change is
possible because like in your brain like
you've been conditioned to have anxiety
all the time and for it to be crippling
and you did your research on the
internet and you looked at this and you
looked at this and you looked at this
and you've been fighting against it for
decades and it's still there
and we want to call you irrational for
thinking it'll never go right nothing
man
it's completely rational and it happens
to be the case that you can't get rid of
it it's just I haven't taken those tiny
des take those steps I want to take
those steps sure cuz you know I'm sure
my audience sees it affects my people
call me you know I spent like one
specific example my professional life is
my tendency to be very almost too much
with the tos on Twitch because of
getting banned like I'm very very very
very very very aggressive in moderating
that and they see that but that's rooted
in my anxiety surrounding making sure
that the platform stays up you know up
and it doesn't go down or get banned or
whatever somebody doesn't say the wrong
thing or somebody doesn't get hurt by
what somebody says
it's all rooted in that which is as now
I've learned through this which is
rational but
it's so sorry it's so complicated but
like maybe
or maybe I overreact a lot uncertain
things so here's what I'd leave you with
Austin okay because I think we should
probably wrap up so the first thing is
that I want you to try to notice the for
lack of a better term it may not really
be the voice of your mom but notice the
voice of your mom as it's up so like in
that moment where you're like concerned
about TOS is that Austin speaking or is
that Austin's mom speaking and then the
next thing to do is if it's Austin's mom
then see if you can like just listen to
her words without doing anything about
it as best as you can just sit with that
fear and acknowledge to yourself that
like if you're on a plane and you're
like okay here we go again
this is the part of my mind that's gonna
activate and it's gonna be terrified
about all these things and if I open up
my cell phone and I look up things that
part of me is gonna feel better and now
this is where people start to jump to
conclusions and they say don't open up
the phone incorrect the most important
thing is that you see like okay can I
get away with not opening the phone or
does this part of me really need this
right now and if it really needs it like
you don't want to be an [ __ ] to that
part of you like
cuz there's a chance that there's a
six-year-old to whom something
catastrophic happened and now the
six-year-old is just paranoid because
they're afraid catastrophic things are
gonna happen we don't want to be an
[ __ ] to that six-year-old we got to
understand that sometimes the
six-year-old needs things that are a
little bit irrational and like aren't
great in the long term but sometimes
they just need what they need because
they're six and so as fast as you can
just play with that and sort of be like
okay can I get away with not doing this
or do I really need this and if you
really need it go ahead and do it and
then this becomes the important thing
watch what happens to the voice of your
mom see where it goes does it go away
does it feel better does it feel
relieved is she yelling at you about
helmets and then you put on your helmet
and then she kind of calms down and the
second take off your helmet again there
comes the yelling I put on my helmet I
went for a ride around the neighborhood
with my friends I came back and my my
helmet was off that's the jolt
that's the turbulence and then she comes
out of the house and she starts yelling
again she turns on and she turns off so
what happens when I do this start to
become familiar with that part of your
mind understand in what ways it works
and it what ways it does it and it's
through familiarity with who we are and
how we function that we gain control
over ourselves we're living a life where
we're blind to like who we are we don't
understand how we work and then we get
confused and we call ourselves
irrational we have invalidated herself
because it doesn't make sense because we
don't understand like no there's nothing
about you that is false like I don't
know how to say this but like reality is
real like you're real your thoughts are
real there are just thoughts they're not
facts they're not reality but they're
thoughts you're real you actually exist
this is a problem that you have
irrationality is just a lack of
understanding because nothing in the
world is rational like people thought
that you know like gravity and all this
kind of crap there's order everywhere
economics medicine physiology psychology
orders everywhere
nothing is rational and the the better
you understand that you were like a
human being and your mind can be
understood your anxiety can be
understood you just have to look at it
cuz you've never looked at it you're so
busy judging it and dismissing it you
got to look at it in that
zopi man because it's like it's like
you're trying to play league of legends
with a blindfold on and like you're just
getting bodied right and left like no
wonder look I would get bodied if I
played it at all but yeah yeah okay well
thank you very much for allowing me to
do this it's been a tremendous
experience thank you to your audience
and for listening it was sort of in the
beginning I was very anxious to say the
least to talk about it I feel very calm
now and collected yeah thank you very
much so one last thought so people I
sometimes let people slip away without
meditating do you met do you wanna learn
meditation are you interested in that do
you meditate I don't I'm open to
anything
did you nose clogged you have like
allergies yet I think I have allergies
and [ __ ] is there a booger that looking
at for the last no just just based on
your eye or by the Constitution I'm
assuming that it's gonna be hard for you
to do nasal breathing practices uh hold
on runny nose yeah yeah I think
allergies yeah yeah I can it looks like
allergies and anxiety are related by the
way and I really yeah if your seasonal
allergies as a kid it's just general
like a 2p kind of crap yeah like little
scratchy throat I lost my voice I don't
know what's going on there but yeah can
you edge with allergies huh you lose
your voice with allergies have a raspy
voice generally no but I think you just
got a topic stuff going on do you have
like eczema and stuff to like dry skin
oily skin like different parts of your
skin are all severe acne moderately
severe acne growing up so I tend on the
oily side but that was treated with yeah
accutane anyway so I'm thinking that
that maybe nasal practices aren't gonna
be great but we're still gonna have to
use the nose cuz you're okay breathe at
some point yep so let me just think how
do you feel about chanting we haven't
done chanting in a while chanting yeah
very anxiety-provoking huh uh yeah it
sounds it sounds scary but what it what
what is the yes
what is or is it so this is great so I'm
gonna show you we're gonna do ohm
Genting we haven't taught this in a
while so we'll do it
so ohm is composed of three syllables
ah-ooh and and so basically the way to
think about it is like if you start with
a completely open mouth let you cut out
actually
[Music]
do I stop no yeah so just go from like
open mouth to closed mouth right do you
see how it like that's the syllables Oh
sir I'm so sorry you keep coming out so
I don't know exist court discord does
this okay yes yeah it just keeps cutting
out so I'm just like ah yeah I think
that's right you're cutting out for me
too but okay so you know ah and then I
shut my mouth
you go ah then you go ooh and then you
go mmm and then you shut your mouth yeah
and then when you shut your mouth you go
mm-hmm okay
great yeah I think it's something with
like auto-detect voice algorithms with
discord that we can't hear you either so
but so I do that but how long do I go
I'm gonna demonstrate I'm gonna teach
you hold on let's start with this okay
because I'm I know is gay is okay so
we're gonna do hold on
voice activity let's do push-to-talk
okay I'm gonna hold on you can't hear me
anymore
so does this transmit better if I do
push-to-talk
let's try
[Music]
yes okay great
so I'm gonna demonstrate for you right
here you cuz your push-to-talk oh [ __ ]
okay so I'm gonna demonstrate so I'm
gonna show you one round okay so what I
want you to do is sit up straight take a
deep breath okay push-to-talk no no it's
okay I'll transmit cuz it's okay the
chat will follow me okay okay close my
eyes
yeah so I'm gonna demonstrate first okay
so I'm gonna demonstrate two rounds so
I'm gonna take a deep breath in
[Music]
and one more time okay and we'll talk
before we have you do it mm-hmm as I can
see you're anxious to never try you know
don't try not to be anxious the whole
point of this is that we want you to be
anxious I'll explain that in a second
one more one more observation okay
why do I feel compelled that like giggle
giggle I can't hear you sorry doctor
giggle like Vacon you're doing it
I laugh but I didn't want to be
disrespectful yes oh man as I know this
is like an actual thing didn't giggle oh
okay we're gonna do it again
what now that you say that now I'm not
gonna laugh so that's like no no just
giggle just see what happens
notice notice it within yourself and
just do whatever you want with it okay
we're gonna be one more time
you can giggle if you want to no big
deal yeah I don't I don't need you
probably cuz there you know let's see
okay ready
[Laughter]
[Music]
here go no see that's so you taught me
another thing is when when you can like
call out the fact that you have a
tendency to laugh on something that
maybe you shouldn't be laughing at and
that what's what was interesting is I
felt like I shouldn't be laughing at
that but I didn't find it funny it was
just that I was laughing at the fact
that I shouldn't laugh
is that weird yeah and then when we call
attention to it you gain awareness of it
and I tell you to giggle what happens to
your desire to giggle you be giggle
anymore that's what you need to do with
your anxiety just goes away if you look
at it it just goes away that's the whole
[ __ ] point okay so now we're gonna do
that with chanting and what I want you
to do is pay attention to your anxiety
because everyone else is gonna be
giggling at you got it right you see
that I might give it's gonna be silly
and they're gonna laugh at you awesome
because Austin is a silly boy okay okay
right and so notice that feeling in
yourself and then close your eyes and
what I want you to do is take a deep
breath in and I'll walk you through it
okay and then what I want you to do is
don't focus on the sound focus on their
necks good especially did it need to be
funny for you to laugh don't control it
don't dismiss it none of that okay okay
okay so notice it within yourself and
then when when you're chanting I don't
want you to focus on the sound focus on
the vibration I want you to pay
attention to where in your body do you
feel the sound okay okay it's fine smile
okay so close your eyes sit up straight
okay deep breath in
ah
[Music]
there it is okay good
we're gonna do it again eyes closed no
breaking character that's the only thing
okay you can giggle but no opening the
eyes okay just keep keep if I giggle
just like in a performance of any kind
you just go you move forward you just
yeah you just giggle but sit with your
giggling with your eyes closed
make giggling your meditation if that's
what happens okay so we're gonna do it
again so deep breath in
[Music]
good again deep
look at the silliness for a second just
look at it
eyes closed its reopening silly again
third time
[Music]
okay it takes a little bit is that
normal that's fine we're gonna do three
more
no talking eyes closed no talking
giggling is allowed observing equaling
is allowed nothing else is allowed okay
three more in succession okay
so I'm just gonna do a breath chant
breath chant breath chant after the
third chant we're gonna just remain
silent no talking no opening your eyes
feel the person that you are when your
left over okay here we go
you
again
[Laughter]
[Music]
third one make it count
[Laughter]
[Music]
don't stop it just be
good eyes closed just feel it feel
yourself
you
we'll do this for about another 30
seconds okay
try to feel the residual sensation of
vibration
I don't want
you
and now we're going to take a couple of
deep breaths so I want you to breathe in
for three seconds and out for three
for three and out for five so slow it
down
and then in four three and out for seven
real slow
and when you're ready open your eyes
that was actually I feel very calm
when I was
was nervous in the beginning because I
was afraid that laughing was
inappropriate
and like it just feels very like I feel
very relaxed
what happened to the anxiety it's gone
for now but yes it's gone in this moment
yeah yeah but wasn't it there before we
started the practice yes when did it go
it went away after this was after like I
acknowledged through this process that
it was okay to laugh
in this moment I could giggle I could I
could chuckle it the fact that we were
going on and then I acknowledge that and
then is that is that the practice is
that literally is this is this something
that you find people giggling at all the
time or is it just like my personal
experience with it or maybe it's
irrelevant but yes that's the right
thing it's irrelevant okay because it
doesn't matter really it worked for me
so why would I care about it
yes Austen and and here's the thing so
there's a couple of really important
things about this practice what have you
cognitively been doing for the last two
hours
like what's what's that thing that you
catch yourself doing that I taught you
at the beginning um
I catch myself like trying to tell like
explain that like it's like it's not a
big problem
or things aren't a big problem or all
kinds of all kinds of restrictions of
who you are what you think and what you
feel
and there's that restriction with the
giggling if you can learn how to giggle
all of those restrictions are gonna go
away you can just be you
that's the whole [ __ ] point
people think like oh you shouldn't
laughter in meditation what do you guys
think the pointless laughing during
meditation is like the best outcome it's
not serious
like what are we doing this for
Island
bliss if you could laugh during
meditation when Zen masters become
enlightened the first thing that they do
is laugh so laugh let it out buddy just
let yourself like if it's silly like go
for it
silliness is irrational it's the nature
of irrationality so who the [ __ ] cares
embrace it laugh be at peace let
yourself be yourself thank you you're
welcome in that was you I really think
what you're doing is tremendous yeah
thank you you're welcome bro take care
of you take care of dr. K thank you so
much I guess
all righty